Document Ether.js for asset hub smart contracts (#295)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ethers-js.md

---
title: Ethers.js
description: Learn how to interact with the Asset Hub chain using Ethers.js, compiling and deploying Solidity contracts, and interacting with deployed smart contracts.
---

# Ethers.js

## Introduction

> The `revive` compiler is used to compile Solidity smart contracts to [`PolkaVM`](/develop/smart-contracts/evm/native-evm-contracts/#polkavm){target=\_blank} bytecode, which allows it to be uploaded to Asset Hub. An Ethereum RPC faciliates interaction with existing Ethereum tools, such as Ethers.js or Metamask

Reviewer: This first paragraph is weird because starts talking about `revive` compiler when the scope of the section is `Ethers`

Also, `An Ethereum RPC faciliates interaction with existing Ethereum tools, such as Ethers.js or Metamask` This should be maybe an introduction in the index page but not in here as we already are explaining what ethers can do

> Ethers.js is a lightweight library that enables interaction with Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)-compatible blockchains through JavaScript. This article demonstrates how to use Ethers.js to interact and deploy smart contracts to the Asset Hub.

Reviewer: Add link to ethers docs

## Set Up the Project

To start working with Ethers.js, begin by initializing your project:

```bash
npm init -y
```

## Install Dependencies

Next, install the Ethers.js library:

```bash
npm install ethers
```

## Set Up the Ethers.js Provider

To interact with the Asset Hub, you'll need to set up an Ethers.js provider. This provider connects to a blockchain node, allowing you to query blockchain data and interact with smart contracts. Here's how to configure it:

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/connectToProvider.js'
```

!!! note
    Replace `INSERT_RPC_URL`, `INSERT_CHAIN_ID`, and `INSERT_CHAIN_NAME` with the appropriate values. For example, to connect to Westend Asset Hub's Ethereum RPC instance, you can use the following parameters:

    ```js
    const PROVIDER_RPC = {
        rpc: 'https://westend-asset-hub-eth-rpc.polkadot.io',
        chainId: 420420421,
        name: 'westend-asset-hub'
    };
    ```

With the [`Provider`](https://docs.ethers.org/v6/api/providers/#Provider){target=\_blank} set up, you can start querying the blockchain. For instance, to fetch the latest block number:

> ??? code "Fetch Last Block code"

Reviewer: I think this should be a plain code block without the collapsible. Also, add some inline comments to the code

Author: I'm worried about this comment and [this one](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/295#discussion_r1907613362).

I placed these portions of code in collapsibles because I was concerned about the page getting too long. @0xLucca 
 do you think it's worth having a long page but showing those snippets completely?

    ```js
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/fetchLastBlock.js'
    ```

## Compile Contracts

> To deploy smart contracts to Asset Hub, you need to compile them into `polkavm` bytecode. Use the [`@parity/revive`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/revive){target=\_blank} library, which compiles Solidity code for use on Substrate-based chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy smart contracts to Asset Hub, you must compile your Solidity code into `polkavm` bytecode. Use the [`@parity/revive`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/revive){target=\_blank} library to perform this step.
```

Install the `@parity/revive` library:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @parity/revive 
```
### Example: Storage.sol

Here's a sample Solidity contract (`Storage.sol`) to be compiled and deployed to the Asset Hub. This contract's functionality stores a number and permits users to update it with a new value.

??? code "Storage.sol"

    ```solidity
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/Storage.sol'

>     ```

Reviewer: Probably no collapsible in here as the contract is part of the explanation

To compile this contract, use the following script:

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/compile.js'
```

> Note that the script above is tailored to the `Storage.sol` contract. It can be adjusted for other contracts by changing the file name or modifying the ABI and bytecode paths accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!!note
    The script above is tailored to the `Storage.sol` contract. It can be adjusted for other contracts by changing the file name or modifying the ABI and bytecode paths accordingly.
```

After executing the script, the Solidity contract will be compiled into the required `polkavm` bytecode format. The ABI and bytecode will be saved into files with `.json` and `.polkavm` extensions, respectively. You can now proceed with deploying the contract to the Asset Hub network, as outlined in the next section.

## Contracts Deployment

> To deploy the compiled contract to the Asset Hub, you will need a wallet with a private key to sign the deployment transaction. You can use [subkey](/polkadot-protocol/basics/accounts/#using-subkey){target=\_blank} to manage your wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy the compiled contract to Asset Hub, you will need a wallet with a private key to sign the deployment transaction. You can use [subkey](/polkadot-protocol/basics/accounts/#using-subkey){target=\_blank} to manage your wallet.
```

> To deploy the compiled contract to the Asset Hub, you will need a wallet with a private key to sign the deployment transaction. You can use [subkey](/polkadot-protocol/basics/accounts/#using-subkey){target=\_blank} to manage your wallet.

Reviewer: I don't think subkey is the best example here, as you could use any other tool that's being used in evm development

Here's the script to deploy the contract:

```js

> --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/deploy.js'

Reviewer: This script is really long, so you can use multiple code snippets explaining each part and then show the full code snippet below

Install the [`@parity/revive`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/revive){target=\_blank} library:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @parity/revive 
```

This library will compile your Solidity code for deployment on Asset Hub.

### Example: Storage.sol

Here's a sample Solidity contract (`Storage.sol`) to be compiled and deployed to Asset Hub. This contract's functionality stores a number and permits users to update it with a new value.

```solidity
--8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/Storage.sol'
```

To compile this contract, use the following script:

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/compile.js'
```

Note that the script above is tailored to the `Storage.sol` contract. It can be adjusted for other contracts by changing the file name or modifying the ABI and bytecode paths accordingly.

After executing the script, the Solidity contract will be compiled into the required `polkavm` bytecode format. The ABI and bytecode will be saved into files with `.json` and `.polkavm` extensions, respectively. You can now proceed with deploying the contract to Asset Hub network, as outlined in the next section.

> ## Contracts Deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deploy the Compiled Contract
```

To deploy your compiled contract to Asset Hub, you'll need a wallet with a private key to sign the deployment transaction.

The deployment script can be broken down into key components:

> 1. First, set up the required imports and utilities:

Reviewer 2: Where does this code go? Is part of an existing file or do I need to create a new one? 

Please add titles to the code fences for all of these snippets so the user knows which file you're working in.

    ```

5. Configure and execute the deployment:

    ```js
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/deploy.js:81:89'
    ```

    !!! note
        Ensure to replace the `INSERT_MNEMONIC` placeholder with your actual mnemonic.

Here's the complete deployment script combining all the components above:

??? code "deploy.js"

    ```js
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/deploy.js'
    ```

After running this script, your contract will be deployed to Asset Hub, and its address will be saved in `contract-address.json` within your project directory. You can use this address for future contract interactions.

## Interact with the Contract

Once the contract is deployed, you can interact with it by calling its functions. For example, to set a number, read it and then modify that number by its double, you can use the following script:

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/ethers-js/checkStorage.js'
```

Ensure you replace the `INSERT_MNEMONIC`, `INSERT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` and `INSERT_ADDRESS_TO_CHECK` placeholders with actual values. Also, the contract ABI file (`Storage.json`) should be correctly referenced.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: Let's trade this out for a ## Where to Go Next for consistency with our other pages. See example page: /develop/toolkit/api-libraries/py-substrate-interface/#where-to-go-next
